This Thesis consists of two halves. In the first half, we consider several related cryptographic protocols which securely perform the tasks of Quantum Digital Signatures (QDS) and Quantum Secret Sharing (QSS). Our goals here are, firstly: to remove an assumption of secure quantum channels from continuous-variable (CV) QDS, and provide a security proof when an eavesdropping attack is permitted; and secondly: to demonstrate that several CV quantum cryptographic protocols may be performed over identical hardware setups, while the hardware at the quantum level is agnostic to the protocol being implemented. This so-called ``agile'' approach illustrates a translation of cryptographic agility from classical (conventional) cryptography to quantum cryptography, and allows for a move towards secure and practical quantum cryptosystems which can perform multiple tasks.

In the second half we consider the task of quantum state generation. We design and analyse a system which is capable to deterministically produce highly non-classical states at the output, from a coherent state input. Using methods from the fields of nonlinear pulse propagation in fibers and of open quantum systems, we analytically and numerically analyse a large multimode system and reduce it, step-by-step, to a single-mode system which is much more numerically tangible. The device, which we denote PhoG (\underline{Pho}ton \underline{G}un), will soon be implemented in a waveguide array structure and will provide a practical and cheap source of nonclassicality for quantum enhanced imaging and metrology, and may even improve the performance of quantum cryptographic systems. 

The two halves of this thesis can be interpreted as studying different aspects of quantum networked systems, in which both the individual systems, and the geometry of coupling between them, play an important role. The first half considers quantum communications networks and cryptographic tasks which are inherently multipartite. By studying the simplest networks of just three players (in two different configurations) we move towards cryptosystems which can be implemented entirely agnostic to the network structure. In the second half we consider large structures of waveguide arrays, where the dynamics are intimately connected to the underlying geometry. We focus on quantum correlation flow and coherent signal propagation in this device of connected bosonic modes, which will soon be created in laser-inscribed waveguides.



In the first half of this Thesis, we introduce a framework of ``quantum cryptographic agility,'' which allows for a resource-efficient swap of an underlying cryptographic protocol. Specifically, we introduce several schemes which perform the tasks of Digital Signatures and Secret Sharing. Our first achievement is an investigation of Quantum Digital Signatures (QDS) over a continuous-variables platform, consisting of phase-encoded coherent states and heterodyne phase detection. QDS allows for secure authentication of a classical message, while guaranteeing message transferability. For the first time, we prove security of CV QDS in the presence of an eavesdropper on the quantum channels. 

We then introduce a CV Quantum Secret Sharing (QSS) protocol. Our security proof allows for classical information to be split and shared between multiple potentially dishonest recipients, while retaining security against collective beamsplitter and entangling-cloner attacks. In the last chapter of this half, we introduce another QDS scheme which runs over identical hardware setup to our QSS protocol. We analyse experimental data in which quantum coherent states were distributed at a rate of $1$~GHz, which for QDS allows us to securely sign a message in less than $0.05$~ms.

In the second half of this Thesis we suggest and discuss a deterministic source of nonclassical light, which we call ``PhoG''. Our source is based on the coherent diffusive photonics, relying on both coherent and dissipative evolution of the quantum state, and may be realised in an array of dissipatively-coupled laser-inscribed waveguides in a $\chi^{\left(3\right)$} glass. We analyse the PhoG device with several analytical and numerical models and demonstrate that a coherent state input leads to a bright output state with strong photon-number squeezing. With minor reconfiguration our system can generate entangelement between spatially separated modes via a process analogous to four-wave mixing.